Q)What is VPC ?
VPC is Virtual Private Cloud which helps us to create our own network as it improves security and keeps our server safe.

Q)What are the Subnets when working with VPC ?
Subnets are range of ip addresses which are used to assign private ip's to our server. By divinding larger range ips to smaller groups are called as subnetting.Subnetting give the count of how much machine we can launch from this ip range. 

Q)What is NAT Device?
NAT is Network Address Translation.NAT devices are used for private subnets where private subnet has no access to internet. When we apply nat gateway with the help of public sever we can access our private server.

Q)What is the difference between stateful & stateless filtering ?
Stateless:- In stateless ACL rules are applied
	
Stateful :- In stateful state tables are applied on firewall

Q)What are the advantages of using default VPC ?
Advantages of using default vpc is 
	-already implemented
	-subnetting is done 
	-no need to do subnetting
	-igw , rt are configured
	-highly available

Q)What is the internet gateway in VPC ?
Internet gateway is a gate attached to vpc to provide internet access and use it publically by providing endpoint to access. 

Q)What is Network ACL in VPC ?
Network ACL is a security term in VPC . Network acl works with subnets where we can allow and deny rules.It is a second layer of defence. 

Q)What is the Security Group in VPC ?
Security Group in vpc is security term which is related to deny rules. It is applied on instance. It is first layer of defence.

Q)What is an Elastic IP Address in VPC, and why do we need to use, realtime example ?
Elastic ip address is static ip address which doesnt get change it reamins stable. It is used on production server in real time to keep public ip stable. if in case server goes down or gets restarted then public ip would get change so elastic ip is used.It is designed for dynamic cloud computing.

Q)Can we attach one Production Elastic IP to the new Prod server ?


Q)How does ELB Affect a VPC ?
Elastic Load Balancer, by default, routes each request independently to the registered instance with the smallest load. ELB automatically reroutes the traffic to the remaining running healthy EC2 instances, if an EC2 instance fails. If a failed EC2 instance is restored, ELB restores the traffic to that instance.

Q)What are the limitations of VPC’s, Gateway and subnets ?
	-VPC's can be costly if we create customised vpc.
	-VPC's can be complex to set up and manage.
	-Limited in term of scalability, 

Q)What is a Public IP Address and why do we use it ?
Public ips is ipv4 address that is reachable from internet. If some one wants access of your resource over internet you must have public ip.

Q)Explain Bastion Host Concept ?
Bastion host concept is used for establishing internet connectivity on private subnet using public subnet. To perform bastion host concept both subnets should be available in same network.

Q)When do we need to create a new customised VPC ?
When we want to set-up new infra for new project at that time we need to create customised vpc according to the network requirement of project.

Q)What is Peering ? Why do we need to peer at two VPC’s ?
Peering is used to form connection between two networks and transfer files.Traffic can be carried between both networks without having any third party to carry traffic.

Q)What is VPN, Where do we use VPN Tunnel ?
 VPN, which stands for virtual private network, establishes a digital connection between your computer and a remote server owned by a VPN provider, creating a point-to-point tunnel that encrypts your personal data, masks your IP address, and lets you sidestep website blocks and firewalls on the internet
